Alright, so thanks for coming this morning, or this afternoon, or wherever you're at.
So we're going to talk about a new R package called Recipes, and its purpose is mostly
about creating design matrices and datasets and pre-processing them with various techniques
that we'll go into more.
So just to maybe get started, talk about a simple linear model that we might use.
And there's a dataset in Carat, so if you were to load Carat and load the dataset Sacramento,
what you'd find is a dataset where there are data for houses that were sold in Sacramento
within a five-day period.
So there are things like the sale price of the house, the square footage, number of beds
and baths, there's like longitude and latitude and that kind of thing.
There's also the type of house, which oddly only has three levels.
But that's all in that dataset, and let's assume that you wanted to build a model to
predict the price of a house.
So you might think about using LM to do that, and to create this model, you use the LM function,
and LM takes a formula.
And so we'll be talking about formulas a little bit, and you know, just as a demonstration
formula, this is not probably how I would model these data, but you might take the log
of the price because it's a very skewed variable, and that's your outcomes, and so it's on the
left-hand side of the tilde there.
And then on the right-hand side, we have basically a symbolic representation of what our model
is going to be.
And basically this says, you know, we're going to model log of price as a function of the
type of house and its square footage, and that data is in this data frame called Sacramento.
And then with LM and formula methods, you can add a little bit here that's a subset
command.
So this would filter the Sacramento data to look only for where there are three or more
bedrooms, if that's the data you want to nail on.
And so basically the purpose of the code chunk, if you take it step-by-step, is, you know,
the first thing it would do would be to subset the dataset that you're going to model using
that command.
And then it creates what's called a design matrix, which is, if you think about linear
regression, we usually think of, like, you know, Y is equal to X beta plus epsilon, and
the X part of that is the predictors, and that's what the old-school people like me
would call a design matrix.
So the second thing that that function does is to create a design matrix.
Now there's two predictors.
There's type and square footage, but you end up getting three model terms.
The type variable is a factor, and that factor has three levels.
And so when it creates dummy variables for that, it will actually make two columns of
that three-level factor that are zero and one for the different types of houses, and
then you have the third term for square footage.
So your design matrix, even though you have two predictors, actually has the non-intercept
parts of that design matrix are those three columns.
And then the third thing it does would be to log transform the outcome variable, which
is price, and then it actually gets around to actually fitting the linear regression
model using LM.fit and some other stuff that we don't normally mess with.
But anyway, the first two steps that is really the part that it creates a design matrix.
And again, we usually, not going to be formulas really in here, but we represent that as X.
So I wrote for RStudio a couple of blog posts on the formula method.
And so just summarizing, and I have a link to those in the slides, and you can find those.
But basically, the great thing about the model form is it's very expressive.
So you can say what your predictor is, what your outcome is.
You can have these inline functions, like logging price will ensure that that happens
in the...
You don't have to pre-log your data.
You can have interaction terms and nesting and all sorts of great things, so they're
very expressive.
And if you're doing something that's pretty simple, like the housing model I was showing,
it's extremely efficient and nice to use.
Under the hood, and this is what the blog post goes into, it actually does some pretty
elegant functional programming, which surprises me that that's been...
I've been looking at it for years, but that's been around for quite a long time in the original
S language.
So you don't really think of R as a functional programming language, but a core part of that,
the model.matrix and LM and all that is pretty nicely done functionally.
And again, I kind of already mentioned this, you can embed functions in the formula like
I did with price here, and the cool thing about that is if we were to log, let's say,
square footage, not only can we do that inline, and it would log that variable for the data
that you have that you're feeding the model on, when you go to use the predict function
on a new data set, again, you don't have to pre-log square footage.
You would just give it the column of square footage, and since it knows it's recorded
that transformation in the formula, it can actually apply to that, to whatever you're
interested in.
There's some limitations to what the function or the formula framework can do, and as I'll
talk about in the next few slides, there's some inefficiencies that can occur there.
It's mostly, I think, because it's a really amazingly well-designed system, but it was
designed where I think nobody envisioned having maybe hundreds of variables in their model,
and the sort of large-scale modeling that people can do today, and so I think it sort
of suffers a little bit in those instances.
So just some examples of that is let's say you want to do something a little more complicated
with your features.
Let's say you have some missing data that you need to impute, and then you're putting
that data into a model like a support vector machine or partial least squares or something
where you need to center and scale those values, and so you can envision maybe doing something
with formula where you have an outcome, an utility, and then since you have these inline
functions, you might think that, well, I want to impute my variable first based on k-nearest
neighbors, and then since I need to center and scale, I can center them and take the
output of that and scale it, and that seems fine, but that's problematic on a lot of levels
in terms of how the formula infrastructure works, and one of those being that if you
need to impute a bunch of variables, let's say with k-nearest neighbors, you would need
to store the original data set, and since the functional programming bit of LM deals
with each variable separately, you'd end up storing the same data set many, many times
for every variable you want to impute.
So not only is it problematic just from a programming standpoint, just even if this
code would work, it's kind of a bad idea because you end up having many, many variations or
the same data set included many times.
So this is not a terribly obscure thing to do, but it does limit you to what you can
do in the formula method.
Another thing is there are a lot of modeling functions such as LM and Rparts, a good example,
where you don't have a non-format interface to the model, so you're constrained to always
specify your model using a formula, and the problem with that is you can't really recycle
things.
So if you've already done all the work to generate the design matrix for LM, there's
no way to take that and recycle it into Rpart.
So that's problematic in a way.
Another thing that I won't get into too much, but you can find it in the blog post that's
linked down here, is that the way the formula method information is stored is pretty inefficient,
and it's especially inefficient when you have a large number of variables.
So we show in that blog post, based on using Rpart or Random Forest, that if you have a
lot of predictors, like in the thousands, you can spend maybe half the time of that
modeling function just creating the design matrix.
So it does have some weaknesses for particularly wide datasets.
It's not really weak in the sense of if I had millions of data points, like rows, but
when you think about columns, the way it stores the information about the formula is not efficient,
and I wouldn't say it exponentially increases in inefficiency as the number of predictors
goes up, but it's not good.
So that's not great.
Another thing that isn't necessarily a limitation, but it's always sort of confounded me, is
if you're going to do anything multivariately, you want to specify more than one thing on
the left-hand side of the formula, and you would need to wrap those in Cbind, which is
just kind of ugly.
So that's something that we don't like.
And then another more fundamental aspect of formulas is there's really a limited set of
roles that variables in your dataset can take.
And again, as we do things that are more complicated beyond linear regression, that becomes a big
sort of more philosophical limiting factor of what this formula technology can do.
So as an example of that, let's say you're fitting like a hierarchical model, whether
it's using Stan or LME or whatnot, you have variables in your dataset that are going to
be included as outcomes and predictors, but then you have data that define the hierarchy.
So if you take this example from the LME4 documentation, you have a subject effect.
So you're modeling in the sleep study, you're modeling this outcome called a reaction as
a function of days.
And I think this model is a random coefficient model that would give you a hard to model
based on with random effects, probably for the intercept in days.
And those intercept, those random effects are connected to the subject specification.
And so subject is not a predictor, but it's something you need to carry along with a role
is your ID variable for the methodology.
And so that's the reason that this formula looks different than the others is because
that particular package in a way had to sort of rewrite the formula method to make that
work because that's what they needed.
Another example is something called the Bradley-Terry 2 package, and that's kind of an interesting
package that can model competitions between variables.
So like if you had a boxing, data on boxing, you might be modeling whether one person can
win over another and you might have a dozen people.
And so the thing is, you might want to model that as a function of let's say reach.
And so in the Bradley-Terry model, it's basically like a souped up logistic regression, but
in order to have that formula method work in this instance, they sort of had to invent
a new way of doing formulas simply because the current methodology doesn't let you really
specify things.
And then another example is there's a boosting method called mob, and you can imagine it's
sort of like a recursive partitioning model like our part, but it fits linear models in
the terminal nodes.
And so when you fit this model, you want to specify which variables are used for splitting
to make the tree, and then which variables are used in the model in the terminal nodes.
And so they wrote a whole new package called model tools that will allow you to have sort
of multiple formulas.
And so again, with the bar here, this is another situation where people needed different roles
of these predictors.
You have predictors that you want to use for splitting and predictors that you want to
use for modeling, and that sort of is not really going to happen in the current standard
formula method.
So if you think about maybe other roles, the ones I could think of, if you have the traditional
predictors and outcomes, sometimes you have stratification variables, like if you're doing
a clinical trial and you want to stratify over sites, that's a separate variable again
that's not, you're not necessarily doing direct computations on it, but you need it.
A lot of models, when we want to capture the performance of the model, sometimes that involves
other data.
So if we're predicting whether someone's going to repay a loan or not, we don't necessarily
care about the accuracy of that model.
We care about the expected loss that comes from that, and if you're going to compute
the expected profit, you're going to need something like the loan amount.
So again, it's another variable that you need to carry along, but it's not really a predictor
or an outcome.
So you can't really do much with the standard formula for that.
There's a variety of other things like fastening or random effects, like I mentioned.
Now case weights and offsets are kind of special cases and sometimes error terms, because there
have been some exceptions written to the formula method where you could have like an offset
variable and declare that in the formula method.
Those are kind of hard-coded things that are in the base package, and they're not easily
extensible to have one for stratification.
Well, there is a strata function in the survival package, but you can just by point is if you
had an arbitrary rule that you're creating, you can't really do that with the current
set of formulas.
So to me, philosophically, this is the larger problem.
You know, all the programming aspects of formulas that we don't like so much, like the inefficiency
sometimes can be programmed out, but this is something I think is really baked into
the system.
So we came up with this idea of something called a recipe, and there's a big food analogy
that's going to happen here.
And so basically the idea of a recipe is you can think of a recipe really as a sequence
of steps, right?
So you're going to make a lasagna, it tells you what the ingredients are, and it says,
you know, assemble it like this and then bake the thing.
But if you think about the linear model we had earlier, you know, a sequence of steps
might be saying, hey, you know, prices are outcome.
That's maybe step one to declare that.
And then we might declare the predictors to be type and square foot.
And then another thing we did there in LM was to say, well, we should log transform
price.
And then the fourth thing we did, we could say that that sequence of steps is, you know,
let's convert that type variable into dummy variables.
And that kind of defines the procedure that the LM formula method, you know, the formula
method with LM actually did when we first showed that code.
And so the thing is a recipe, at least as I've stated here, is really what we're intending
to do.
It's not actually doing it necessarily.
So one of the issues with, you know, model.matrix and all that is the specification of what
you want to do is coupled directly with doing it.
So that's one of the reasons you can't really recycle things very easily between methodologies.
So you know, what recipes does is basically says, well, let's specify what we want to
do.
And then we won't actually, we'll delay the execution of that doing until we, you know,
say, well, these are the data we want to do it with.
So we kind of separate the planning of what we want to do from actually making it happen.
I'll show you there's a link in the slides.
But if you want to install it, it's not a crane yet.
But there's a GitHub page for it here.
And it's got, you know, a lot of examples.
And as you can imagine, you've seen my other packages, there's a boatload of documentation.
So right now, if you want to use it, you basically load the or install or load the
DevTools package, and then use install into our GitHub with my GitHub ID and recipes.
And that's currently the way you get it, but it really should be on CRAN pretty soon.
So this will be linked in the slides.
So once you load that, just for convenience, I also load a dplyr so we can get the pipe
operator and some other things.
And so if we wanted to reproduce maybe what Ellen was doing before, we start off, I'll
show you a different way to create the initial recipe.
But if we only have prediction outcomes, if you don't have any special roles that we want
to apply to our data, we can start with basically a symbolic representation of what should be
in the model by saying price is, you know, a function of type and square footage.
Now, the data that you use here doesn't have to be the original data.
It's just what we do in this particular step is we want to record what data are in that
data frame and what their their attributes are, like are they factors or the numbers
and so on.
So this doesn't have to be a large data set if you have a very large data set, which of
the recipe basically you don't have to use pipes, but I'll do that for convenience here
is you can start adding steps to the recipe.
So if we want to take the original recipe and add a step that says, hey, log transform
this variable, we could do this little bit and that basically modifies the recipe to
include a step of that recipe saying the log that variable called price.
And then another thing we can do is to say to add on to that is to convert type to dummy
variables.
And so at that point, what we've done is we've come up with a specification of what the roles
are using this for the method like we used before.
And then we've talked about or described what kind of preprocessing or actions we want to
happen for those variables by just adding these steps to it.
And so it's fairly reminiscent if you've ever used care to the sort of in some ways, like
the preprocess part of care where you can decide what kind of preprocessing you want
with your variables.
But again, all this does at this point is it says, well, what is the specification?
What I want to do.
And all we've said at this point was price of the outcome type and square footage or
predictors, we're going to log price and create dummy variables for type.
It doesn't actually do anything but record those actions.
And then in this whole food analogy, we want to take this recipe and prepare it.
Then what prepare does is basically you can think of it as training or learning or fitting
the preprocessing steps.
So, for example, we have dummy variables here for type.
So when we do this, we're just saying we want to make dummy variables when we run prepare.
What it actually does is interrogates the data that we've given it and says, OK, what
are the levels of type and how exactly am I going to make those dummy variables?
So once you start prepare, that's when you're actually doing computations and storing
information about the specifics of those actions.
Now, one little thing that I've done here you wouldn't necessarily have to do is I'm
saying retain equal true.
And what that says is take the data set that I've given it.
And when you estimate these actions that you're going to do for the recipe, keep the
modified version of that training set around, keep it in this object.
And that'll stop us from having to redo computations over and over again.
So that's a nice little feature.
And you'll see that I'll mention that in a few minutes when I'm showing how things are
sort of cached when we do this.
So, again, we've specified what the actions are.
We've sort of estimated things that we need to estimate.
And then when you do that, it tells you which steps.
There's a verbose option.
But right now it tells you what steps are being executed as they're executed.
And then when we actually want to get the design matrix to put an LM, the analogy here
is we're going to bake that recipe.
So we take the the object that we created that has all the information we need from the
data. And then the new data option here says, well, you know, apply this this recipe to
this data set. So if you're like in the machine learning or the
predict modeling world, you might have a training, a test set.
And so you can apply these operations that you estimate from your training set to the
test set or to any new samples that you get.
It's kind of like a predictor and apply method where you're basically projecting all
the preprocessing methods on whatever data set you're interested in.
And that will give you your design matrix.
So so that's the basic idea behind recipes is you specify what you want, you estimate
the things that you need to estimate, and then you apply it at will to whatever data
sets that you want, which could be the original data set like it was here.
And that's the basic idea.
So the rest of it is sort of talking about the features and some of the things that you
can do. Now, one of the things you may have noticed here is, you know, when I created
this step for price, you know, I'm not quoting any variables here.
And if you're a person who's used deep wire, you can see some similarity here where
there's a bunch of deep wire like things happening here.
Like we can pipe in information and sort of update objects.
And you can see I'm not having to quote variables when I do this.
But the interesting thing about recipes is unlike deep wire, we might want to specify
what variables are using different steps based on more than their name.
So right now, and as I'll show you in a minute, you can specify any number of variables
in these steps by using their name or the standard deep wire things like matches or
starts with. So you can use these sort of like functions to declare what variables are
used in the steps.
But sometimes we might want to do, let's say, dummy variables and do it on all the all
the variables that I have in the data set that are not numeric, that let's say are
factor variables. And so we also have these selectors that you can use that are things
like all numeric.
So if we want to have a step, we can say, well, do that for all the numeric predictors
that are in my data set or do it on all the predictors or all the outcomes.
And you can add and subtract these like you would with deep wire.
So, for example, if you want to do PCA, you can't really do that on factor variables.
So you might want to specify do it on all the predictors that are numeric and then you
can do that like sort of like you have here the sequence of selectors.
We can always just type the names and with common delimited unquoted variable names.
But if you want to be a little more concise about what you're doing, you can do that.
Now, one interesting aspect of a recipe is you might be doing or you might be saying
let's do some operations on variables that don't necessarily exist yet.
So, for example, if you're going to discretize predictors or, as you'll see in a little
bit, do like PCA feature extraction, you might do PCA and say, give me the number of
PCA variables that capture 95 percent of the variability.
And that might be four of them or it might be a hundred of them, depending on the data
set and the correlation structure and all that.
So what's interesting about recipes is you might be making you might be wanting to do
operations in the variables that actually don't not even exist yet, but you don't know
how many of them there are.
So, you know, you can do things like, you know, matches, you know, PC one through nine,
which would capture, you know, the first whatever principal components you have there
and then make sure that you also capture the numeric predictors.
But maybe your outcome is numeric.
You might want to get rid of that one.
So you have a really, really rich set of way to specify variables in these recipes.
And then we have a whole part of the vignette or the website has a whole vignette on
selecting variables and examples of different ways of doing that.
There's quite a lot there.
All right, so one cool thing about the recipes is you can start with a recipe like the
one we have, the current recipe we have all the only thing it does is really logs the
outcome, increase dummy variables.
But again, let's say you want to center and scale your data and then maybe apply.
It wouldn't really make sense for this particular example, but let's say you want to
apply PCA signal extraction.
Well, once you have your your recipe, whether it's been trained or not, you can just
keep adding steps to it and make that a different a different recipe.
So you can sort of save in a way you can sort of like catch where you've gotten so far,
save it as another name and add other steps to it.
And I'll show an example of this towards the end with some dimension reduction routines.
So if we start off this recipe that we've already done some computations on, we add
some more steps when we go to prepare this recipe, it doesn't need to redo the ones
that have already been executed.
So you can you know, when we go to prepare the recipe with our training set, step
center is going to need it to calculate all the means of the numeric predictors and step
scale, calculate the standard deviations of all the numeric predictors.
And then when it calculates the loadings and things like that for PCA, that's the things
to prepare. We'll do it won't redo necessarily the things which the things that you've
already done in the recipe.
So when I go to run prepare on this new recipe now, I didn't say new data equal or I'm
sorry, training data equal to Sacramento.
And the reason I didn't have to do that is this retain equal true.
If I don't if I don't retain the original predictors, the original data set, then I
would need to add that here.
But the value of having that sort of retain is when you go to do this new set of
processing, you can see when it gives you the log of what it's doing.
It puts pre-trained here because it's telling you I don't need to redo those
computations because nothing's changed and that it does all the estimation needs to do
for the remaining steps.
So the cool thing about this is, let's say you want to try a bunch of different things.
You created a bunch of different, let's say, design matrices to see what works for your
model or your data.
And let's say, again, you have some expensive imputation step that you need to do
before you start doing these things because you have missing data where you can do that
imputation step, which might be sort of computationally taxing, but you don't have to
redo it every time you create a different design matrix.
You can just sort of recycle those computations.
And so that saves you a lot of time potentially when you're creating these things.
Or if you're doing something complicated like you like an auto encoder or some some
really like complex and big part of these recipes, you can you can basically cache the
results up to that point, which is kind of a nice feature.
So, you know, this is kind of like the shock and awe slide.
Here are the things that I've gotten into recipes so far.
You have a lot of basic things like loots and roots and logs and polynomials and all
that stuff. Again, anything I'm missing here, whether it's obscure or not, please let
me know. There are a bunch of things we can do with encodings now, so we can do, of
course, dummy variables, which is sort of a standard thing.
You know, one thing you could do, like in the Sacramento data set, is there's a
predictor for city.
So you might want to include the actual city as a as a different dummy variable in the
model. But the problem is, you know, even though we have a thousand or so data points,
some of these cities only have two or three instances in the data.
So what you'd like to be able to do is to dynamically say, well, you know, give me
dummy variables. But, you know, if the frequency of any group in that in that factor
is very small, let's say like 1 percent or 5 percent or whatever your tolerance is, can
you change the factor levels and dump those into an other level?
You can do that for cats and in vitriol.
I think you can do that in those packages.
But, you know, you can have a step that would actually sort of reassemble the factor
levels based on that.
I'm not a big fan of binning, but, you know, we have discretization steps.
One other cool thing I had for an example or a data set I've been working on is let's say
you have a predictor that is a date field.
You know, it's a date class and are, you know, you're probably not going to analyze it
as a date. You want to analyze whether the month has an effect or the day of the week
has an effect. And so we have a step that basically can do all the encodings for dates
if you want to take that single column of your data and make a bunch of features out of
that for different ways to represent dates where you can do that.
It also give you indicators if you want it for holidays.
So, you know, if you're modeling something that is dependent on whether that date is a
holiday or not, you might want to have pretty much in your model for that.
So we have a nice holiday, holiday step.
Similar to care, we have a bunch of filters for, you know, highly correlated predictors and
things like that. Imputation right now, keen ears, neighbors, back trees, simple mean
mode, imputation.
You know, there's a lot more you can put in there.
Simple normalization, transformation type things.
Again, these are very similar to what's in carrot.
And again, if there's anything missing here, please let me know.
There's a great package called Dimred, D-I-M-R-E-D, and I kind of capitalized on that
where it has a nice interface to a bunch of dimension reduction operations.
And so, you know, right now it's really easy for you to do a step that's PCA or kernel
PCA. So you might have a bunch of variables.
This is an example I'll show in a minute.
You might have a ton of variables that you just want to do some plotting with and you
might need to log some things and maybe do some transformations.
And so what I'll show you in a minute is you can try a bunch of different dimension
reduction techniques without redoing a bunch of computations prior to that.
So there's there's a lot of steps here that will allow you to do these things.
And there's things like, you know, basic expansions and interactions, which, of
course, we need. And there's a lot more to put in.
You know, I've got a little list in GitHub, you know, a bunch of things that you can
look up, you know, trying to find a good autoencoder package.
There's more imputation methods that we can be done here, like a singular value
decomposition. So there's a lot there.
There's a lot of documentation qualities.
But again, you know, let me know if there's something really lacking here.
So, you know, I've already mentioned you might have said, well, Max, you know, the
recipe you had before started off with a formula.
I thought we were trying to get away from formula method and that would be right.
The value of using the formula in the initial recipe is if you only have an outcome
in or outcomes and predictors, you know, that's the most syntactically concise way
of doing it, because the situation is not that complicated in terms of roles.
Let's say you do have something more complicated.
Another way of assembling the recipe is not using formula.
So you can say, you know, I want to have a recipe and the data is the original data
set is here.
And then what you can do is you can take all the variables that are in that data set
and they'll be available and then you can start defining their roles so you can add a
role for price being the outcome.
And these are not hard coded.
There's not like a pre-specified list that you have to choose from.
So if you want to come up with some new type of role for whatever modeling method
you're doing, this is basically like pretext.
You can put in whatever you want.
Now, we do use outcome and predictor a lot in the package.
So if that's the traditional roles these things are playing, stick to outcome and stick
to predictor. But let's say you want to have the zip code as a stratification variable.
So you might want to fit this linear model separately for every zip code.
And so you can have that column in your data set come along for the ride, not be created
into dummy variables.
And then when you extract that using the bake function, you know what its role is and
you know what you can get.
So so as an example, if you wanted to have a little wrapper around linear regression,
you know, the underlying function that does the linear model fit is called LM dot fit
and takes an X variable, which is your design matrix.
And it takes a Y variable that is your vector.
I think it has to be a vector of numbers.
You could have that function be parameterized in terms of a recipe and some data.
And then inside that function, you could actually do the prepare bit because the recipe
already has the steps all pre-specified, so you don't need to specify them here.
And then when you fit LM, you can just get the design matrix by doing bake and then add
dplyr selectors for what variables you want to be returned from that call.
So if I just want the predictors, my design matrix would basically be this.
And then if I only want the outcome, I can do the same thing, you know, use this bake
command, but only get the outcome back.
And so, you know, again, if you had stratification variables, you could say, you know, role is
strata or whatever you want to select these things by roles.
One other nice thing about this is since the steps are all sort of independent of each
other, you know, this isn't baked in quite yet.
Sorry, I should use another food analogy, but this isn't really written yet.
But the cool thing is, is if we have some preprocessing method that's available, let's
say in scikit-learn and we have scikit-learn installed on a computer, you know, it
wouldn't be hard to write a step that would then connect R to Python, pass the data to
Python, have it do the preprocessing there, return all the information it needs to do
that technique on new data and have that come along.
So, you know, R is sort of our default compute engine here.
But we can certainly, since these things are sort of like modularized, we can
certainly do that with, you know, Weka or TensorFlow or what have you.
As long as that stuff is installed when you're in a place where you're using R and
you have code to make that connection, we can start writing steps for other packages
basically. So that's kind of a cool thing.
Not available yet, but it's there, it will be there eventually.
So here's an example in our book, we took some data, some image segmentation data
where people took a bunch of images of cells and sometimes the imaging software did a
good job of saying where the cell boundary is and other times it didn't.
So that's called segmentation of a cell.
And so we have a data set where we have a couple thousand rows, we have a couple
thousand images and cells, and they've been already classified as being well
segmented or poorly segmented.
And they wanted to have a model that basically predicted that based on a bunch of
imaging derived qualities of those cells, like how big they are, how they're shaped
and so on. And so basically we want to build a model that takes the imaging data and
then makes a prediction on whether that cell was well segmented or poorly segmented.
Because if we really think strongly it was poorly segmented, we probably want to
filter those cells out of our subsequent analysis.
So we can build a model to do that.
I'm not really going to do the model building here.
What I want to do is show there's 58 imaging predictors in this data set and many of
them are highly, highly correlated.
So if we want to look at our data and say, OK, are there any outliers here?
Are there any weird features in the data?
We might do some dimensional reduction techniques to figure out how can we project
those 58 dimensions down to only a few dimensions and still capture what's going on
in that data set. So I'll use some steps based on dimensional reduction to highlight
that. So let's say you were to add or if you hadn't loaded dplyr or caret, you would
load those. The data is in the segmentation data object and then segmentation data
has the original authors pre-specified what data they use for training, what data
they use for testing.
So I'm going to use a little piping here and filter out to make this training version
of the data set. I'll filter out or I'll keep only the ones that had ksql train and
then I'll get rid of two columns in that data set that are the data set identifier
and the actual number of the cell, like it's individual cell ID.
And then I do the same thing.
So I have a data set that only has the original idea of a test that was there's about a
thousand cells in each one of these data sets.
So what I'll do is I'll estimate any statistics I need from the training sets, like the
PCA loadings and things like that, and then apply them to the test set.
And then that's what I'll do the graphics on.
So that's the data set we'll use.
So we'll start off with just a simple recipe.
The class variable is the one that is a factor that is whether something is well
segmented or poorly segmented.
And I'll say, you know, everything else in the data set besides that class variable is a
potential predictor. So that's the basic recipe where I've declared the rules for
everything. And then what I'm going to do is some of these predictors are extremely
skewed. And so that can mess up some of the things like PCA that use variance as an
objective function and how they do their computations.
Now, some of these predictors are negative and highly skewed.
And so there's this thing called the Al Johnson transform, which is sort of like the
Box-Cox transformation.
And it can have the effect of un-skewing your data.
And we use this one instead of Box-Cox because Box-Cox requires your data to be
non-negative. It can't be well, it can be zero, has to be strictly positive.
And some of our data is not like that.
So we're saying is all the predictors in our data set, we're going to estimate and apply
this Al Johnson transformation to make them a little less skewed.
And then some of these dimensional reduction techniques, we're going to want to
center and scale our predictors.
So, again, we've only said what we want to do here.
We haven't done anything yet.
There's three basic steps so far that we've sort of declared.
And then when I prepare that recipe, I've just kept the same name.
We're going to estimate these things from the training set.
I'm going to tell it not to print out the steps just because.
And then I'm going to use this retain equal true again, and that'll allow us to recycle all
these computations to get created in subsequent steps.
So let's say I want to do principal component analysis.
Well, what I can do is I can take this sort of pre-trained recipe and add a step for
principal component analysis.
And so what this says is, hey, do PCA on all the predictors in the data set.
Now, they're all numeric, so I don't need to specify their type.
And this other option says is, you know, give me the number of PCA components that will
capture 90 percent, basically the variability in the predictors.
And so, you know, I don't know right now how many predictors that is, but it will give me
enough to capture that information to make sure I have a pretty good representation of my
original data. So, again, what I've done here is I've just added a added a
specification as to what I want, but I haven't actually done PCA yet.
So there's a summary function for recipes.
And when you run a summary function on it, what it tells you is what the available
variables are, what they're, you know, at this point in the recipe, what their type is,
are they numbers or are they factors and things like that.
It tells you their role and whether there are variables that have been derived or the
original variables. And so you can see right now I have 59 variables.
So there's 48 predictors in an outcome class.
And and that's what it is, because I haven't done PCA yet.
I haven't transformed this into principal components because I haven't prepared it yet.
And so then let's say we do that preparation.
We don't have to re-estimate again centering and scaling these things.
But this four step when we do the pair function on it computes all the loadings that we
need to do PCA.
And then if I do the summary method on that, now it's telling me the things that are
available in the recipe or these variables called PCA1, PCA2, because I've actually done
the recipe. So, you know, what variables are available to you at any given time can
change depending on what you're asking it to do at each step.
So prior to PCA, even though I said are in scale and transform these variables, they
were there under the original name.
But now that I've done PCA, they're there under a different name.
So now we have the components, we can we can bake them and get their actual values for
the test set. And then if you just do a simple GG plot, you can see, you know,
at least using PCA, what kind of separation do I have in the data?
I don't really see any outliers here per se.
And there's, you know, a fair amount of overlap in the data.
So, you know, how difficult of a modeling problem this is doesn't mean it's
impossible, but at least from a linear classifier standpoint, you can get an idea that
there's some separation, but not complete separation.
But you might think, well, you know, there might be some other sort of feature
engineering type things I can do.
And one of the things is if you've ever heard of support vector machines, what you can
do is you can, let's say, project your original predictors into another higher
dimensional space that that might be a nonlinear transformation.
So you can sort of apply these sort of nonlinear transformations of your data in this
thing called kernel principle component analysis.
We'll do that transformation and then do PCA on top of the expanded dimensionality of
your predictors. And the Kernelab package has a way to do that.
We have a step for doing that.
So, you know, our PCA recipe utilized that basic recipe that just did the centering and
scaling and transformation.
And so instead of doing the regular PCA, now we can start with that original recipe and
create another one that does our kernel principle component analysis.
We have to tell what kernel to use and some of the parameters, which I've done here.
But when we prepare that, we're only, you know, this has nothing to do with the PCA
analysis we did previously, but it re-estimates everything it needs to for the kernel
PCA. We bake that to get the values for the test set.
And again, we can just ggplot that away.
Here you see a little different distributions, but I think there's a little bit more
separation between the classes by doing this kernel transformation beforehand.
So, you know, this might be a good sort of feature engineering step to do.
You know, you can do like an isomap transformation, things like that.
There are many other dimension reduction techniques you can do.
A really simple one you can also try is since we know the classes, we can compute sort of
the multidimensional class centroids for each class.
So we can take a 58 dimensional space.
We can find the center of the distribution for the well segmented predictors in the center
of the distribution for the poorly segmented cells.
And then this step class this will will compute that.
And then when you want to get new predictors, it will actually compute the distance of
every individual data point to the centroid of the original classes.
So it's almost like doing like a linear discriminant analysis and in here.
But it's sort of a as a pre-processing step rather than as a model.
And so you can add a step for that.
Again, use all the predictors since you need to know the classes to do the centroids.
You need to tell what class to use.
And that's this variable here.
And these are distances which need to be skewed.
So let's just log transform those predictors that we get that come out of this class this step.
And so, again, we prepare that.
We don't have to redo computations and then we bake them.
The data that comes out of that is we have the original class.
You can see how the matches here.
It says, give me all the variables in the computed recipe that start with class, whether
it's uppercase C or lowercase C.
And I have the original class variable.
And then the distances to the to the poorly segmented class centroid in the well segmented
class centroid. And it turns out when you do that, I think you get the most separation
between these these data.
You do see some outliers that are induced here.
You might want to look into those data points.
But if you know what we did here is we did some different feature engineering steps
utilizing this basic recipe and just kind of layered them on without having to redo a
bunch of computations.
So, you know, you can do the same thing with models where you might then put these design
matrices into various models to see what does better or worse for the for the model that
you're trying to use. And hopefully this is illustrated where you can just recycle all
these computations and the sort of simplicity of doing that.
So that's the example just to give you an idea of the next steps.
We're we have another package that Lionel is working on called Tidy Select and recipes
where it depends on that for some of the selectors.
So as soon as that's on CRAN, which should be soon, we'll get recipes on CRAN.
Another thing that comes in handy is, you know, you know, recipes right now, since it's
not linked directly to any modeling methods, it's kind of like having one shoe in a way
where, you know, you can get pretty far with it.
You can get your design matrices and things like that.
But it would be nice to have that integrated into a bunch of models.
And at least the first step of doing that is having a couple methods in care to do that.
So, you know, if you want to specify your model with some preprocessing, you would do
some some syntax like this where you either use the formula method or give it the X and
Y data sets and then say which preprocessing you want to use, like, you know, PCA or
centering and scaling.
What I'm doing right now is creating a new interface in addition to the ones that are
already there where you can say I have this recipe.
Here's the data you're going to use for training.
You don't need to declare what the preprocessing is because it's built into that
recipe. So you can start specifying your models and train at least, you know, which is
wrapped like 200 different types of models and, you know, use that to both say what the
predictors now comes are, but also do the big sort of expanded set of preprocessing
techniques that are here compared to what is in care so far.
So that's that's one of the next steps.
And then after that is, you know, there's there's more new modeling packages coming.
So these are all integrate with those modeling packages.
So that's what's next on board.
And thanks for making it this far.
OK, let's see, start with the flag ones, if you're right, so is it possible to store and
return the results later?
Now, if you mean the the results in terms of the intermediate steps, so like when we did
PCA, we had to compute the loadings.
Yeah, sure. I mean, that's basically what it does is it when you do the prepare, it
computes the loadings in there.
You know, I use cached.
I mean, they're basically saved to that object so you can extract them.
You can use them on future data points and whatnot.
And now when you say, can we store the results if you're talking about the design
matrix? Yeah, I mean, you can you could use bank on that and save that as an object.
So if I'm understanding you, those cases, yes, you can save and return them.
That's that's one of the main things that we do.
Let's see. The training set, what happens if the variable is being turned into a dummy
variable is not included?
As it happens, if all of the variables are not included, so I'm not quite sure what you
mean. You have to declare that you want to make dummy variables out of factors.
So if you if, for example, if I didn't use that step dummy, step under bar dummy for the
housing type, then when you bake that recipe, it's still going to it's not going to be
modified. So, you know, form of the water, Matt, well, 99 percent of the time for the
method will automatically convert factor variables to dummy variables in most of the
modeling functions. There are a lot of exceptions that like reinforce our part in a
lot of tree based methods don't do that and they don't really tell you they don't do
that. But right now, if you want to get dummy variables, you have to use that step dummy
step to make sure that that happens.
So if that's your question, then.
That would be the answer. But otherwise, if you don't do anything to them, they just they
stay in the original form and they just they come along for the ride.
Is there any steps and recipes to select the test training breakup?
And what about cross validation?
So, no.
And I've thought about that quite a bit.
The thing is, any steps that you do, they have to be operations that you would apply to
any data set. And so if you think about splitting data, you're going to differentially do
things to each data set.
So I'm trying to think of a better way to say that.
So one thing I thought about including is there's a bunch of sub sampling methodologies
like if you have class amounts, it's like downsampling.
And I thought, oh, that would make a great step.
I should put that in here.
But you don't necessarily want to always downsample.
So you might want to downsample your training set.
But when you go to make predictions on your test set, you don't want to downsample that.
So I've kind of left splitting steps out of there and things that would filter rows.
For the most part, I've done that.
Now, one thing that we're talking about doing is and this is just we're just talking about
this right now. I haven't implemented anything is being able to include deep layer type
filters in steps.
So you might, you know, pipe in a step to do centering and scaling.
But then you want to, let's say, filter on some variable that's there.
So you can imagine doing a filter by or filter, which is in deep layer to a recipe.
And there are some some of those deep layer operations that I don't see any reason why
they wouldn't work here.
So there might be ways of doing that in the future.
But I haven't coded them up, but just realize anything you do in a step is something that
you're going to always do to whatever data you're applying it to.
So there might be some some things that you don't want to include in the step in terms of
cross-validation. Funny you should mention that.
I mean, I'm like 80 percent done with another R package that I haven't made public yet that
will have a bunch of like standardized infrastructure for resampling, whether it's
cross-validation or time series resampling and things like that.
So, you know, it's it's very much like what Model R does with maybe some expanded ways of
doing things. So in there in that vignette, which I shouldn't talk about things I haven't
released yet, there are examples of how to include recipes into this cross-validation
scheme. So it's not out there yet, but you don't probably want to wait too long to to see
that. Are there vignettes?
Yes. If you go to the the recipes again, there'll be a link in the webinar notes.
But if you just go to GitHub and Google and recipes, well, you're probably at Hadley has a
like a home set of recipes like food, actual recipes.
You'll probably find that first. But undermine my to Pepe GitHub account.
If you go to that recipes directory or repo, there's a GitHub IO link there that has I
think there's three vignettes there and all the documentation.
So, yeah, there's there's a lot there right now, including if you want to write your own
recipe, like how would you do that?
So there's like a full example of another recipe that we just create from scratch and the
things that we need to do there.
Why is it necessary to specify the same data set in both the recipe and prepare functions?
You don't really. So I did that out of convenience here.
But let's say you have a data set that's like a couple of terabytes or something and you've
got it in memory and are when you first declare the recipe, you can just take the first
hundred data points, let's say, from that that that big data set and use that to define
the recipe, because the only thing that the original recipe does is is get an accounting
of what variables are in the data set and what their types are.
So you don't really need to do that.
That was just out of convenience here.
Then when you do prepare, then all the data that goes into prepare is the things that you
want to estimate parameters.
So so that data set you want to be the more full and expanded, you know, the real data
that you want to do computations are.
But when you define the recipe initially, you don't need to have the complete data set
there. Just enough for it to get a sense.
It's like like radar does is, you know, it does an initial scan of the data to get a sense
of, you know, what columns in your CSV file or numbers or dates or what have you.
It kind of does something like that, where it just takes a look at that data and says, oh,
what do I have on hand?
So it doesn't need to know their distributions, their full probability distribution,
something like that. Where can I find other examples of recipes right now?
Those would mostly be in the vignettes or just training materials.
Again, since I haven't put it on CRAN, it hasn't been widely circulated.
So right now it's sort of limited.
But, you know, I'm hoping that that will be there will be more for you to bite into there.
I'm certainly, you know, for papers and other things that I'm doing now, I'm sort of
transitioning over to recipes.
A lot of the steps that are in there are just things that I've been doing for data analysis,
for papers or books or whatever.
So there will be many more examples.
But right now, not so much.
Why does extend carrot rather than create a new recipe package?
That's a great question.
I mean, you know, I love carrot.
I love working on that.
And I'm still working on that.
The thing about carrot is it's very, very monolithic in the sense that if you've ever used it,
you know, the way resampling or preprocessing and things like that, it's all embedded into sort of one big function.
And so when you want to make modifications to the system, that, you know, the concept of
that, you know, the consequences of doing that, since it's not very modular, are pretty severe, to be honest with you.
And so the idea of having a separate package is it sort of isolates those new things that you want to do without you
worrying about backward compatibility.
You don't have to worry about, well, wait, how does this affect this and that?
So it's easier to make a separate package that has these steps and these sort of ideas in it and make adapters for carrot
than funneling all this stuff into carrot.
Another good reason not to do this in carrot is carrot already has like a lot of dependencies.
And so I don't want to like double down on that just for the sake of how long it takes Crayon to check these things.
So it's more, you know, the idea going forward is to have more modular blocks of code in different packages.
You know, like like a good example might be like like GG plot, right?
I mean, we could always take everything that people want to do with GG plots and just add them in the original package.
But it's actually easier just to have extensions of GG plot in different packages.
Same thing with Shiny, right?
I mean, it's better not to have everything in one huge package.
Probably in time.
The impact would be helpful if you considered further categorization of predictor role as predictors of interest versus adjustment variable.
Yeah. And so so, yeah, you could do that.
So, for example, when you're creating the roles, if you create them sort of sort of like by piping new roles in, that's how you would do that.
So you had an example where you had a modeling function where you had predictors that were used for splitting and predictors that are used for fitting models.
And so you could have a role called like predictor under bar split or whatever you want to call it.
So you can do that.
And then when you use bake, you can just extract those particular variables or those roles or you can extract all the variables with these two or three roles.
So you definitely have the ability to do that.
I was talking to somebody yesterday about latent variable monitoring, where you have different variables that you would include with different latent variable like layers.
And so that's the same thing is you could have a role that's for, you know, for latent variable Z, another one for latent variable, whatever.
So you can do that using roles, basically, which is kind of why we created the roles.
Any plans to make this work with sparkly are.
I don't know. I mean, that's one question we've been talking about is what happens when you have remote data like we've been paying a lot of attention to that, but there's nothing coded right now.
And it's the same thing with Python or anything else is what do you do?
You know, it would make sense to have recipes operate on things that are not in memory and are.
So that's something we've been talking and thinking a lot about.
There's no code written to do that.
Sort of like a deep liar, though.
You got to kind of watch out because there might be something that spark doesn't do that.
Let's say recipes does.
So it would be weird if your data is in spark and you want to do centering and scaling.
Well, spark can probably do that.
But what you don't want to do is you don't want to try to declare a recipe step that is not doable.
Let's say in spark or anything else.
At least we have to figure out how to manage that.
Do you want to pull those data out of sparking in order to do that recipe step?
So there's there's a layer of complexity there.
It's doable, but we just have to make sure that we do that without like bringing the whole system down sort of thing.
So there's some complexity, but that's definitely things from the from the beginning that we've been talking about doing.
So not as such yet, but in the future.
Yes, I think so.